Hi everyone, thanks for coming out today.
My name is Paul Knight,
I'm an engineer on Safari on iOS.
This is Optimizing Web Content in
UIWebViews and Websites on iOS.
And I want to start out by talking
about a kind of a bold assertion.
The web is crucial to modern technology.
I know this is like a really hard sell
to a room filled with web developers,
but hear me out here.
You know,
these devices that we're carrying
around with us all the time,
these iPhones that we
keep in our pockets,
that give us instant access to all
sorts of information wherever we are,
they really change the way we work
with content and work with information.
And whether we're developing a
website or a standalone web app
or delivering this content through
a UI WebView and a UIKit app,
your users really expect
a great experience.
And this is especially important on iOS.
It's one of the core tenets of iOS.
It's one of the core
tenets of the platform,
that users want a great experience.
And one of the most important
things about delivering a great
experience is performance.
So we're going to talk a little
bit about web content performance
and optimizing your web content.
We're going to start by talking
about some hidden costs and
surprising slowdowns in web content.
Things that look fairly obvious at first,
but when you kind of get under the
hood and look at what's going on,
turn out to be really heavy
in terms of implementation.
We're going to look at how
WebKit takes your code.
Your HTML, your CSS, your JavaScript,
and turns it into websites on the screen.
We're going to actually look into
what WebKit does in a way that we've
never really done before in WWDC.
And we're going to talk
about some techniques for
improving painting performance.
And lastly,
we're saving this for the end,
we've got some cool new
features in iOS 6 to talk about.
Things that will improve performance in
your app and that you can use when you're
working on your website and your app.
So let's get started with hidden
costs and surprising slowdowns.
And when I say hidden costs,
I don't mean that at Apple we're
trying to hide away surprising
little performance gotchas.
We're not in the hallways, "Hey Joe,
I just figured out a way to make this
guy's website 50 milliseconds faster,
high five!" You know,
that's not what we're talking about here.
What we mean is that sometimes there
are things that when you're just
staring at your HTML or your CSS,
it seems really straightforward.
But in terms of what's
going on behind the scenes,
there's a lot more.
So there's three different
areas we're going to talk about.
We're going to start with image decoding.
So I have a photograph.
It's 960 by 1280 pixels.
It's not that large.
And you know when you're
saving this photograph out from
your image editing program,
there's a bunch of different options you
can tweak in terms of quality and type.
So we could say this is a low-quality
JPEG that might be 100 kilobytes on disk,
a higher-quality JPEG,
the file's a bit larger,
or we could be crazy and
save it as a lossless PNG.
I hope you're not serving
this on your website.
but this is an option.
This is the encoded on
disk form of the image.
In order to actually paint
this image onto the screen,
we first have to decode it into memory.
If we look at just a really small region
of this photo and blow it up a lot,
all of these pixels,
every one of these pixels that
make up the photograph have with
them four pieces of information.
There's a red, green, blue,
and alpha component,
and every one of those components
takes a byte of memory.
When we take this image
and blow it up into memory,
this image takes 4.7 megabytes of memory.
of continuous allocated RAM.
And what's really interesting is
this is true whether or not we're
talking about the low quality,
100 kilobyte image on disk,
or the lossless,
much larger image in the PNG format.
In order to paint it,
we're going to have to
decompress it into 4.7 megabytes.
Width times height times 4 bytes.
Now, this isn't bad, necessarily.
It's simply a fact of how images work.
And it's worth keeping
in the back of our minds.
So, for example,
let's take a look at-- this
is the iPad user guide manual.
It's a web app,
and we have all these images
on the left side of the screen,
the sort of chapter icons.
And we could download all of
these images individually,
all 20-something images.
But we're trying to minimize
HTTP requests and the overhead
associated with loading this page.
And one really popular technique for
doing that is taking all of these
individual images or sprites and
stitching them into one sprite sheet,
one image that we can download.
And in order to show just
a part of this image,
we use a little bit of CSS trickery.
We have our element set its
width and height to the size of
the sprite we're trying to show,
and then use background position
to slide the image around
behind the actual element.
And this is a great technique
for reducing the number of
individual downloads that you
need in order to load your page.
But if your sprite sheet looks
like this-- and so we're not
trying to point any fingers,
Ted.
We're not trying to point any fingers.
So what I've done is I've taken this
real sprite sheet from a popular website,
probably several hundred
thousand uniques per day,
and I've colored the areas
that are actually being used,
the areas of this image with image data.
They're colored red.
And then the rest of the image has
that sort of tiny gray and white
transparent checkerboard showing through.
And this image is not that big on disk.
The data that gets transferred over
the network is only 28 kilobytes.
But when we decode this
image into RAM for painting,
it requires 5.7 megabytes of RAM.
That is a lot of memory.
And if we were to take this image
and sort of repack it by hand,
we could do it into a much smaller image.
So small I'm going to actually
scale it up a little bit.
Whereas this old image
was 84% unused space,
this new image is only 5% unused space.
And the size on disk
doesn't really change.
This doesn't affect the
download speed at all.
But what it changes is the
amount of RAM we need to
actually draw this on the screen.
And this is not just a high score thing.
We're not trying to get down our RAM,
the amount of used RAM down just
because it's a number we can brag about.
When the system is under memory pressure,
the system behaves worse overall.
The JavaScript collector is
going to have to run more often,
introducing pauses in your application.
Other applications are going
to be exited more often.
You're going to get memory warnings
in your UI application more often.
The overall user experience is worse.
In the worst case,
your app might even get killed
for using too much memory.
Now you might be thinking to yourself,
"Hey, Paul, you know,
this is just..." No,
most of you have already
forgotten my name.
And that's okay.
So you're probably thinking to yourself,
"Hey, guy on stage,
this is just like one example, right?
People aren't doing this all over
the place." These are all real
sprite sheets that we've collected
from real popular websites.
The one on the far left
is my particular favorite,
99.7% empty space.
These are real savings in RAM that we
can get just by repacking these images.
So, image decoding.
They have a cost associated with them.
There's the size of an image on disk,
but there's also the
decoded size of the image.
And you can get a rough estimate of that
by taking the width times the height,
multiplying that by four bytes.
Avoid wasted space in your sprite
sheet that's just memory that
you're not going to be using.
And as a more general rule,
avoid using images that
are larger than you need.
Don't download a 1,000 by 1,000
image if you're just going to display
that at 250 by 250 pixels on screen.
And likewise,
don't download high DPI content
for non-retina devices.
In fact,
if you want some good ways to do that,
there's going to be a session later
this week on just high DPI content,
and there's some really cool new
stuff that you can use for that.
So that is our first area of
hidden costs image decoding.
Next,
let's talk about JavaScript loading.
So images are just one kind
of resource on your site.
You also have a bunch
of JavaScript files.
And in this particular example,
I've got four scripts up here.
And when I load this page,
when I pull out my phone and
I'm on a cellular network,
I tap on a link to load this page,
it sure feels like it
takes a long time to load.
In fact, it feels like nothing is
happening for like 14 seconds.
The progress bar is filling up,
but nothing else is happening on screen.
So we can use the new
Web Inspector for iOS.
And if you haven't heard about this yet,
the Web Inspector works on iOS.
You can take on a Mac computer,
open up a Web Inspector and
attach it to an iOS device.
This is really cool.
There was a session about this just
a few minutes ago in this room.
But if you missed that,
you can come by the labs and
we'll get you up to speed.
So in the instrument navigator,
it's called on the top left,
it's the third navigator,
there's this network requests timeline.
And in here, we get a really nice sort of
waterfall timeline view of all of the
resources that we're trying to load,
when they start loading,
when we get the first byte of
information back from the server,
and when that resource finishes loading.
And we don't get a really complete
picture of why it feels like
nothing is happening when we're
loading our app just from this view.
There's a couple things worth mentioning.
There's this red line right at the end.
This is when the onload event fires,
when all the sub-resources
on the page have been loaded.
And there's this one sort
of suspicious-looking
JavaScript file at the bottom.
It's got a 12-second latency,
12 seconds between when
WebKit first asks for this resource,
and we finally get one
byte back from the server.
Now, this seems like a lot.
This almost seems impossible.
But on a cellular connection,
latency measured in the seconds
is pretty much the norm.
And if this is maybe another
server hosted by a third party,
and it's really slow today,
they're under a lot of load,
you might see really high latencies.
And maybe we're getting the feeling that
this one script is actually preventing
the page from rendering at all.
In the layout and rendering
timeline in the Web Inspector,
we get a list of events.
And the interesting thing here is
that we're seeing a painting event.
But they're only happening right at the
end of the load after 14 seconds or so.
All right.
So what's going on?
It turns out that the way HTML works,
the way the HTML and
JavaScript execution model works is
that JavaScript will pause parsing.
So you have your HTML parser,
you have an HTML document,
and the parser starts at the top.
It reads the doc type, HTML tag,
head tag, title tag,
and then it gets to a script tag.
And the parser has to stop and wait
until all of the JavaScript in that
script tag has been fully downloaded.
Then the JavaScript executes immediately,
and then the parser keeps going.
Meta tag, link tag, script tag,
and it stops again until all of that
JavaScript has finished downloading.
And this is just sort of a fact.
It's the way things
are specified to work.
It's how JavaScript expects
to run inside of web content.
So we want to avoid this.
We want to avoid this synchronous
JavaScript loading behavior.
And there's two attributes we can put
on our script tags to use either an
asynchronous or deferred execution model.
The idea behind both of these
is the download for that
JavaScript begins immediately,
and it doesn't block.
So the HTML parser keeps going
down and builds the DOM tree and
sets everything up on the page.
If you add the async
attribute to a script,
they're going to be executed
as soon as they're loaded.
So the download kicks off immediately,
and whenever that JavaScript file
is fully downloaded,
that's when it's run.
It's run at the next good opportunity.
Deferred scripts, on the other hand,
make a guarantee for the order
of execution of the scripts.
So deferred scripts will always
be executed in the order that
they're listed in the HTML,
and they're always executed
just before DOM content loaded.
So that means DOM content
loaded is delayed until all
of your deferred scripts run,
but sometimes you need to make
guarantees about the order.
So going back to my few scripts here in
my page that's taking forever to load,
these first three scripts,
I need them to run in a certain order.
They're dependencies of each other.
They expect certain objects
to have been constructed.
But this last one,
I don't care when it runs.
As long as it runs sometime,
that's good enough for me.
So I'll add the defer attribute
to the first three and the async
attribute to the fourth one.
And if we reload and
look at the timeline,
the timeline looks a
little bit different.
There's still the
onload event at the end,
and now there's this
new blue dotted line.
This is when DOM content ready fires.
But more importantly,
if we look at the layout
and rendering timeline,
the first paint happens just four
and a half seconds into the load.
That's because the parser was able to
get all the way through the document.
We were able to load enough resources to
actually draw something on the screen.
And even better,
there are several more painting
events as more content is loaded,
as those images start to come in.
And we sort of incrementally
render the page.
This is a much better user experience.
Even though the page doesn't load
any faster necessarily total,
the first time we paint the page
happens much earlier and the user
can start interacting with the page.
And there's one more thing I want to
talk about with JavaScript loading.
And that's,
we've seen a lot of JavaScript libraries,
a sort of pattern where you
include one script at the top,
and then that script will load all
of its dependencies and plugins,
either by dynamically inserting script
tags or using XML HTTP requests.
And if you do that,
you end up with a picture that
looks something like this.
You end up with this staggered
stair-step waterfall.
Because we don't know that you
need any of these dependencies,
any of these other resources,
until we finish loading the
first top-level resource.
And remember,
we're talking about cellular
data connections where latencies
are measured in seconds.
So every single time a resource
is chained onto another resource,
that adds multiple seconds to
the total page loading time.
Instead, it's much better to just list
all of the resources you need,
all of the stylesheets, images,
CSS files in your HTML.
And then we'll be able to start
downloading them immediately.
[Transcript missing]
If you need to know
when the DOM is ready,
there's been a lot of confusion over
which browsers support which events.
These days, DOMContentReady is a
standard DOM-specified method
that's part of the spec.
So you can use DOMContentReady
to know when it's safe to start
attaching all of your event
listeners and manipulating the DOM.
And if you're looking for
the position of an element,
instead of like taking an
element's offset top and adding
it to its parent's offset top,
and again, to its parent's offset top,
and walking the entire chain,
there's these methods,
get bounding client rect,
and that returns a rect object with
all of the geometry information.
It's really fast.
So there's a lot of
built-in power to the DOM.
This is just a sample of what
the DOM can do these days.
So if we're looking to these
libraries maybe to round out what
we think are missing features,
maybe they're not missing anymore.
It's worth taking a look at.
And in general,
the challenge I'm sort of making is,
if you don't need the
JavaScript framework,
try getting rid of it.
They're very large resources.
They cause a tremendous
amount of memory allocation.
Again,
if you're using it for good reason,
cross-browser compatibility
or something like that,
by all means use it.
They're great tools.
But if you're just loading some
resources out of your application bundle,
maybe it's time to reevaluate your usage.
So that's the second area of hidden
costs and surprising slowdowns,
JavaScript loading.
And the last one I want to talk
about is layout calculation.
So I have this web page.
It has about 500 elements in it.
And when I tap on this
button on the web page,
I want to increase the height of
all of these elements by 10 pixels.
So I use querySelectorAll
to get all of the things.
And then for each one of the things,
I grabbed the offset height
and then just set an inline
style that's 10 pixels taller.
It's a little silly, but it works.
Except it works really slowly.
In fact,
I tried this on my iPad the other day,
and it took almost 700 milliseconds
to go through these 500 elements.
[Transcript missing]
Well,
it turns out in this line where we ask
for the offset height of the element,
we're asking for the current
calculated up-to-date layout
information about the element.
We're asking,
what is its height right now?
And then in the very next line,
when we change the height,
we invalidate all of the current
up-to-date calculated style information.
And so the next time through
the loop for the second element,
WebKit is going to have
to re-layout the page.
It's going to have to make sure
that nothing else is moved around
and that when it returns the offset
height for the second element,
that is still up-to-date and accurate.
And we keep doing this.
We keep invalidating the
current layout information,
then forcing the current
layout information,
invalidating it,
and forcing the layout over
and over and over again.
So it's going to look a little bit silly.
But instead, if we create an array,
went through all of the elements
and pulled out the heights at once,
and then in another loop,
updated all of the elements at once,
the code runs faster.
In fact, it runs almost 100 times faster.
And the best part is, in the events list,
there's just one recalculate styles,
one layout, and then all the painting.
That's exactly what we're looking for.
So it's usually fairly obvious when we're
invalidating current layout information,
adding or removing a class,
inserting a style tag,
manipulating the DOM,
or inserting an inline style element.
But what's often not so obvious
is what methods require up-to-date
and current layout information.
So if a method has either
client or offset in its name,
that's a really good sign that it could
force a layout if layout is out of date.
GetComputedStyle, GetPropertyCSSValue,
of course, they're explicitly asking for
the up-to-date style information.
But there are a couple methods
that aren't so obvious.
InnerText is one of them, actually,
because InnerText is not going to
include any text that is inside of
an element with display none set.
So it needs current
up-to-date style information,
and it could force a layout.
So avoiding unnecessary layout.
Use the Web Inspector timeline.
It'll show you when
layouts are occurring,
when we're recalculating styles,
and you can figure out if maybe there's
a section of your JavaScript code
that is forcing layout unnecessarily.
Operations that need current style
information will force a layout.
And if you're finding that
you're forcing layout too often,
try batching all of the changes
that are updating style information
towards the end of your JavaScript.
that will make a huge difference in
the speed of some of your methods.
And that is the third area of hidden
costs and surprising slowdowns.
But we are really just sort of
scratching the surface here.
These are just like the first
couple of things to look at.
If we want a really good understanding
of how we can improve painting
performance and understanding what
WebKit is doing behind the scenes,
we're going to need to peel back a few
more layers and look a little bit deeper.
And to do that, I'm going to turn things
over to my colleague,
Joseph Pecoraro,
who's going to talk a little bit
about layers and WebKit rendering.
[Transcript missing]
So we can easily create this page and
with the body controls when we need them.
But that's not the
whole story to painting.
We don't want to paint the
entire page all the time.
Take this page, for instance,
that video is going to be updating on
the screen constantly if it's playing.
So the best thing we can do,
and this is what WebKit does,
is it cuts out a portion of the
screen and hands it to the video
renderer and says paint the video here.
This is great.
It can update as frequently
as it wants without the page
having to worry about it.
WebKit does have to remember
to take the video controls,
group them in their own box,
and paint them on top of the
video when they need to display.
And I think you can see
where I'm going with this.
These are the layers that WebKit is
managing under the hood for the page.
So to give you a better
visualization of that,
here's the page as we as users see it.
But under the hood,
WebKit has taken that video.
It's going to push it into content
that's floating on top of the page.
And the button controls,
when they need to be displayed,
are again in another layer
that's sitting on top.
And this really is a layer.
It's got a width, a height, dimensions,
and painted content.
So, to finish this painting story,
when we have layers,
what we're going to do is we're going
to flatten them into a single image.
This is called compositing.
It's something that the
GPU does really well,
and it's something that we'll see more,
and it's one of the reasons
why using layers is efficient
for painting and animation,
because we can composite so quickly.
So, WebKit has a number of
different types of layers.
What normally distinguishes them is
whether or not they have a backing
store and the size of the backing store.
So, in this example,
those video controls that were
floating on top are a small
layer with a small backing store.
That backing store is a memory allocation
that contains image pixel data.
It's got a width and a height.
It's exactly like the decoded data of
images that Paul talked about earlier.
It is the painted contents.
So, when we have that painted content,
we can do some really cool stuff with it.
We can send that image to
the GPU as a texture and
manipulate the GPU efficiently,
things like transforms, rotation,
scaling, opacity to take advantage of
blending with background layers.
This is great.
This is called hardware acceleration.
This is how we can get
animations to work so smoothly.
But of course,
back-end stores have a cost,
and that cost is memory.
So if you have a 100x100 CSS pixel div,
about 40,000 bytes,
the back-end store might actually be
a lot larger depending on your device
or how the WebView is displayed.
So on a retina device,
the high DPI device,
there are two device pixels
for each single CSS pixel.
So we've doubled the dimensions
of the back-end store to 200x200,
or about four times larger.
And if you zoom in on
the web page to say 2x,
we've again doubled the dimensions
necessary for the back-end store.
And as back-end stores get really large,
WebKit's going to potentially
use up too much memory.
So it's going to mitigate that
risk of using too much memory and
create a different kind of layer,
which we call tile layers,
for large layers.
It's going to break it up
and paint it in pieces.
And there's always one case
where there's a problem.
It's a tile layer,
and that's the main page's content.
I think you can see why.
I'm sure you've all gone to a page
where if you scroll to the bottom,
new content gets loaded in.
And you scroll again,
new content gets loaded.
You could have an infinitely large page.
WebKit's not going to create
one large layer to store all of
the painted contents of that.
Instead, it's going to optimize.
It's going to paint only the
visible portions of the layer,
and it's going to paint it
in smaller back-end stores.
That's what these tiles are.
So we know a couple of the different
types of layers that WebKit creates.
How do they get created?
What's the cause in HTML and styles
that causes these layers to be made?
So there's always that one
tiled layer for the main page.
That's where content draws
if it draws nowhere else.
But the rest is all elements and styles.
So elements that paint frequently,
things like video or canvas,
those will get a layer.
3D transformations,
things that the GPU has been
optimized for for years,
rotation, translation.
It's important to note
here that these transforms,
anything with the WebKit transform style,
are only affecting how the
element is painted on the page.
It doesn't affect how it's laid out.
It doesn't move the position
of the element and cause a
recalculate style and relay out.
This is why it's so efficient
to do transforms for animations.
Any other enhancements to content,
things like opacity, reflections,
animations, transitions,
these may cause layers,
and in most cases, they do.
Special cases where content
moves separately from the
content of the main page.
So on iOS it would be position
fixed content or touch scrolling.
And finally,
and this is sometimes the gotcha,
is any content that overlaps
other content in a layer.
So if we think back to
the original example,
the video controls were
displaying on top of the video,
so they needed to be pushed
into a layer in order for the
page to be drawn properly.
So there are a number of tools that
you can use for quickly editing
your page and measuring performance.
I'm going to walk through
some now and then do a demo.
So the Web Inspector, really powerful.
There's so much it can do.
Here we're going to narrow
in on just editing styles.
So you can tweak the styles
of some particular element.
My favorite thing to do is open
up the style sidebar and check on
or off an individual style to see
exactly how that affects the page.
And then you can see the
performance on the page.
You don't have to go back to Xcode,
tweak your app and run it again.
You can just do it all on the fly.
WebKit sits on top of the
platform graphic libraries
Core Animation and Core Graphics.
So the instruments,
the native debugging tools
that work with those will work
just fine with web content.
Core Animation has an instrument
where you can turn on certain
debug options like show blended
layers or flash screen updates,
and that will work just fine with
web content to measure performance.
If you want to measure the memory
performance and cost of the layers,
there is the VM Tracker instrument.
If you use this and take
a snapshot of the page,
you can see the different
malloc zones and their sizes.
Make a change to the page,
take another snapshot,
and you can see how it changes over time.
The WebKit backing store allocations
show up under the I/O Kit malloc zone.
And finally, what we'll spend the time
in the demo talking about is
WebKit's own debug setting.
So there's a user default,
WebKit show debug border.
If you set this on your
application and relaunch it,
whenever it paints web content, it will,
if there's a layer,
paint a border around that layer.
And there's different colors for
the different types of layers.
But rather than explain them here,
I'm going to actually go
into the demo and show you.
Excellent.
So I've got the sample application,
which you can download
from developer.apple.com,
and it's got a number of pages
that I'm just going to load
up and go through in order.
So this first example is a
page that has a widget that's
common on many pages and apps,
and it's got an issue with flashing.
We're going to go through,
understand why it's flashing,
and then fix this problem.
So at the top, we've got a, well,
let me zoom out.
At the top, we've got a scroller that's
using touch overflow scrolling.
It performs great at this zoom level,
but if I zoom in or out,
you can see the content
inside it flashes.
Okay, you can see that.
On the bottom,
we've got a similar slider,
but it uses touch events
and it tracks my finger,
but when I release it and it
animates to a page boundary,
it flickers for just a moment.
[Transcript missing]
And we'll see what's going on here.
So here we can already see the
tiles for main page content
are drawn with their borders.
But if I load up this
example and zoom in,
there's a lot going on here.
So around the main page,
there's this yellow border.
It's difficult to see here,
but that just means a container layer.
Any page that has layers will normally
have this yellow border around the body,
meaning that there are layers inside it.
This is kind of the
root containing layer.
But the scroll on top has a couple
The Orange Border Contents
of the Scroller are so large
that WebKit is optimizing and
only painting what is visible.
The Light Blue Cyan Border Contents
are masked or clipped content,
which is certainly the case when clipping
around the edges of the scroller.
The Scroller at the bottom that
follows touch events doesn't have
any layers visible right now,
but when I release my
finger and it animates,
it gets the same borders and the same
properties as the scroller on top.
There's this orange tiled layer
and the blue for clipping.
So what's going on here is the
content in these layers are so large
that they're being painted in tiles.
And in order for WebKit to
determine what's on screen
and what it needs to paint,
that's an asynchronous operation.
And you get a slight flicker as it's
repainting or recreating the layer at
a new zoom level or pushing content
in a layer for the first time and
having to draw it for the first time.
So an approach to fix this
is to make a smaller layer,
to break up that large layer into smaller
pieces or eliminate it altogether.
An approach that we can take here
is push each of the individual items
of these sliders into its own layer.
That's of course going to take a cost,
some extra memory.
But we're making a smaller layer that
WebKit can manage without tiling.
So I've got a button in the
corner that does just that.
It just set a WebKit transform
translate Z on each of the individual
items inside the scrollers.
And you can see now they have
a green border around them.
So now as I zoom in and out of the page,
WebKit doesn't need to paint
that content in pieces.
It's now in one chunk that we've kind
of hinted to WebKit is important and
small enough that it can be painted.
And small enough that it can keep around.
The scroller on the bottom no
longer jumps into and out of tiles.
It's always there,
always visible and performs much,
much smoother.
So, second example, while this loads.
While I was doing research for this talk,
I went on the internet
and I did a web search,
what information was out
there on performance on iOS.
And there were some great articles,
but there were also some that
were recommending what may
have been useful in the past,
but is definitely not useful anymore.
A bad practice of adding 3D
transforms to everything on the page.
One even went so far as to say this
will solve all your problems on iOS.
So, I decided to give it a shot,
you know,
take this blog's advice and do it
on a medium to large size page.
So, I went to the New York Times and
I did just that.
I injected some style that
would put layers on everything.
And the results were pretty dramatic.
The scrolling performance dropped
from 60 frames per second to 20.
The double tap to zoom takes about
two to three times longer to recover.
The memory consumption skyrocketed
from 30 megabytes to 100 megabytes.
140.
So I know this is a
pretty contrived example,
but there's actually a lot
that we can learn from it.
If you turn WebKit's debug borders
on in your own application and
you see any issues like this,
it would be a great quick performance
fix to improve the performance
or get a little boost to the
painting performance in your app.
So on the left, we've got this blue
clipping masking border.
It's difficult to see here,
but it was the same as
in the previous example.
And that means something like overflow
hidden or overflow scroll being
applied as a style to that content.
If that's not necessary,
it's just extra work that
WebKit's doing every time it has
to paint that portion of content.
So removing that style if
it's unnecessary will get you
a small performance boost.
And static content like the text
that's in a yellow or a green layer
is just going to be wasted memory.
And removing the style that's
causing that is going to save your
app and the system memory and get
you better performance overall.
It may also be indicative of a problem
with CSS where a selector is more
general than it needs to be as applying
styles to something you didn't expect.
I'm going to wrap up
with one nice example.
This is a pretty famous
example out there.
I'm sure it's a good example.
It's come up in a few WWDCs in the past.
And it's about animations.
And this page is pretty complex.
It's got a lot of leaves
falling down the page.
It's got this clipping
border around the edges.
It's got a label with
opacity that's on top.
And what I want to stress here,
and I'm going to turn off the
debug border so we can see
what it looks like normally.
What I want to stress here is
that in no way in this content was
there any 3D transforms applied.
This was just written like a normal page,
keeping in mind that we
want to keep layers small.
I want to say don't prematurely
optimize your page by adding
something like a 3D transformer,
trying to trick WebKit into
doing something it doesn't
necessarily need to do.
The WebKit does a really good job,
and it's improved over
the past few years,
on making sites perform as best they
can just out of the box without you
having to make any extra changes.
In review, WebKit layers are great when
you want smooth animations,
when you want fluid interactivity.
You want your content to be in
layers when you want it to animate,
something like that.
But there are cons.
You definitely don't want
to have unnecessary layers.
The memory cost does
balloon pretty quickly,
and it can put pressure on your app,
maybe even get it killed.
Large layers will cause
tiling and flashing.
You want to avoid them when possible,
break them up into smaller layers,
and hint to WebKit in
those particular cases.
And something that app
developers should be aware of,
anytime you're using the GPU,
you're consuming power.
So a lot of GPU usage,
like a lot of layers,
will cause a little bit
extra power consumption.
And remember, use the debug tools.
They're there to help
you find and fix issues,
and it makes it really easy to find
and understand what WebKit's doing now,
and then fix issues that you come across.
So with that,
I'm going to hand things over
back to Paul to talk about
some new iOS 6 enhancements.
Thank you.
Thanks, Joe.
So that's a look at what WebKit is
doing underneath the hood when
it's trying to take your HTML,
CSS, JavaScript,
and paint it onto the page.
But I want to step back a little bit.
and talk about this in the
context of your application,
where all of this fits in in your app.
So in previous versions of iOS,
UI WebView used what's called
a synchronous rendering model.
And it's this idea where some work
is going on in the main thread.
Your app is responding
to some touch events,
maybe,
that's causing some content to update,
and WebKit needs to redraw.
So it's going to take over the
main thread and do its rendering
there for a little while.
And then when that's done,
the main thread can go back
and do whatever it needs to do,
respond to UIKit events.
And this can happen a few times.
It happens regularly throughout
the lifecycle of your app.
But the problem is this
area where rendering is
happening on the main thread.
This means that the main thread
can't respond to user events.
You can't handle delegate callbacks
from CF Network or any of those sorts
of things that we do on the main thread.
The main thread is blocked,
and the application appears to freeze.
So this is not great.
How do we fix it?
Well, we fix it like we do any sort of
long-running task on the main thread.
We pull the rendering
off into a new thread,
a background thread,
the rendering thread,
and this leaves the main thread
free to do whatever sorts
of stuff it needed to do.
The idea being that WebKit rendering
happens on a background thread,
it doesn't block the application,
and this is going to be automatic
for all UIWebViews that are
built with the iOS 6 SDK.
So the SDK that you downloaded yesterday,
if you rebuild your app with it,
all UIWebViews will start using
this asynchronous rendering model.
Scrolling is going to
be so much smoother.
It's really fantastic.
It performs great.
I agree, it's totally awesome.
But one word of warning,
this doesn't change the API.
So still,
use UIWebView only from the main thread,
just like all the UIKit classes.
Okay?
And one other thing I want
to talk about rendering,
and we sort of touched on
this a little bit earlier,
is this idea that when
you're loading a web page,
it doesn't all just pop in at once.
It sort of loads in chunks.
So as you're loading a web page,
some text will pop in,
and then as an image will load, it draws,
and then as more images load, they draw.
And this incremental
rendering is fantastic.
It's great,
especially for websites and web content,
where,
especially on a cellular connection,
it might take a while for
very large images to load.
And so you want to let the
user start interacting with the
page as quickly as possible.
But if you have this sort of incremental
rendering with an app interface that
you've implemented with a UIWebView,
it doesn't feel so great.
In fact, it might even feel a little bit
broken as parts of your interface
are kind of drawing and flashing
in as they're being loaded.
So what we really want is we want a way
to suppress this incremental rendering.
We want to avoid rendering
partially loaded content.
And in iOS 6, there's a new property
on UIWebView called
SuppressesIncrementalRendering.
Set this to Yes,
and WebKit is going to try
to avoid rendering things
until they're fully loaded.
This is awesome.
Use it for any case where you're
building a significant amount of
your application UI with web content.
But we don't want to turn
this on all the time.
Again, if you're loading sort of
regular website content,
incremental rendering is a good thing.
So we've spent all of this
time building a great website,
and then we've spent all of
this time building a great app,
and we want to let all of the users who
visit our website know about this app,
right?
And so what happens?
Well, the user visits your website,
so I have this
San Francisco pocketbook guide app,
and they're reading an article about
a seal rocks over by Lincoln Park,
the park named after the president,
not the band.
The user's kind of,
they're interested in this content,
they're reading it,
and they're maybe about to start
panning or tap something else.
When this happens,
the user gets punched in the nose.
Or at least it feels like that sometimes,
right?
Big pop-up ads take over the full screen.
We've seen this on all sorts of sites.
And good luck hitting the
close button in the corner.
I can never do that myself.
So there are a bunch of
problems with this approach.
They interrupt the user's browsing.
The user was interested in this content.
They were trying to read this.
And suddenly,
there's a big ad in their face.
The user may already
have the app installed.
And there's really no way for web
content to determine this or detect this.
And that's a privacy issue.
You know, you don't want any website
knowing that-- well,
I don't want any website
knowing that I've got Sallie's
Spa installed on my phone.
Maybe unless I can tell that website that
I've got expert scores in all 40 levels.
The point is it's a privacy issue.
And lastly,
say the user does have the app installed.
So they go to the home screen.
They find your app.
They launch it.
And it opens to something
completely different.
It opens to whatever article
they were reading the last
time they had your app open.
Or it opens to the app's home screen.
The user's context is lost if they
move from your website to your app.
So in iOS 6,
we think we have a better solution.
We're calling it the Smart App Banner,
and this is what happens.
When the user visits your website,
a new banner slides in.
It has your app icon,
a link to the App Store,
information about the
current rating and the cost,
and all this sort of great stuff.
And if the app is already
installed on the user's device,
that view button changes
to an open button.
So tapping on the app banner links
the user directly to your application
and can also pass in information to
maintain the user's current state.
This is really cool.
It works not just on iPhones,
it works on iPads,
and it totally works in landscape, too.
It's really neat.
So how do you add this to your site?
It's a new meta tag.
It's called Apple iTunes App.
And you add in your app ID.
This is just a unique ID that's
associated with your app.
You can get it from
itunes.apple.com slash linkmaker.
And there's also this optional
app argument parameter.
It's a URL.
It's a real URL,
so it needs a scheme and it needs
a colon and that sort of stuff.
But the actual format of the
URL is totally up to you.
So I'm using a private URL scheme
that includes the name of the
article that the user is reading.
But in your case,
this could be as simple as
maybe the HTTP URL of the page
that the user is currently on.
Then when your application opens,
your app will know how to translate your
website URLs into view controller stacks.
For example, your app doesn't need to
register for this URL scheme.
Because the app is
associated with the app ID,
the correct app is opened no matter
what URL schemes you've registered for.
It's really cool.
Inside of UI application,
the method application open URL,
that URL parameter is where your app
is going to be passed this information.
So that's where you would parse this URL,
set up all your view controllers
to restore the user state.
So the smart app banner,
it's new in iOS 6.
You can invite the user to install
your app from your website.
And the really cool thing is you
can maintain the user's context.
So if they're reading about something,
they can continue reading about
it in your app instead of losing
everything that they're doing.
So we've talked about
a ton of stuff today,
and let's try and wrap it all together.
Web technologies are a great way
to deliver application content.
I don't need to tell you guys this.
You guys are the ones who
are building the really cool
application content that's being
delivered to all of our users.
But the way we write web
content has a direct impact on
the overall user experience.
It's not simply that WebKit is a black
box and every year Apple makes WebKit a
little bit faster and that makes
all web content a little bit faster.
As web content authors,
we can actually make changes to the way
we code that have direct impact on the
overall performance of our apps today.
Look at resource loading times.
Make sure that you don't have any
JavaScript blocking loads or you're
not chaining resource imports
unnecessarily slowing things down.
Avoid unnecessary memories and layers.
This is huge.
Memory pressure is one of the
biggest things that can cause
your app to feel slow on iOS.
So make sure you don't have sprite
sheets with a ton of wasted space.
Avoid images that are larger
than they need to be and don't
set Transform Z on everything.
And really sort of the theme
is understanding a little bit
of the internals of WebKit.
Just keeping some of these ideas in
the back of your mind means that it's
a lot easier to build really great
web content that performs really well.
Lastly, take advantage of these really
cool new features in iOS 6.
You're automatically going
to get asynchronous rendering
in all UI web views.
It's totally awesome.
And you'll also be able to take advantage
of the ability to suppress incremental
rendering for app content and use the new
app banner to link people to your app.
So, for more information,
you can always contact Vicky.
There's great documentation for the
Web Inspector and some other general
best practices for web content authoring
on the Safari Developer Center.
And there's always
devforums at apple.com.
So, for more information,
you can always contact Vicky.
There's great documentation for the
Web Inspector and some other general
best practices for web content authoring
on the Safari Developer Center.
And there's always
devforums at apple.com.